Avaliador A:

According to the authors the number of activities provided by scientific
workflow management systems is large. Therefore, scientists must know a
variety of them to take advantage of the reusability of these systems.
Having this problem as motivation, the authors propose a hybrid activity
recommendation system considering information on frequency, input and
outputs of activities and ontological annotations. 

They also propose the
modeling of activity recommendation as a classification problem, which after
being tested with classical techniques achieved satisfactory results. The
positive aspects of this paper are that the problem addressed is relevant
and the results are promising. In addition, authors explore the activity
semantics during workflow recommendation that still remains a challenged
topic even if in different application domains (comparing with scientific
workflows) is advanced. Despite the interesting points of the paper, the
paper must be improved in the follow aspects before being published:

- I suggest the authors to rethink the title of the paper that emphases the
ontology aspect of the approach. In my opinion the paper has a strong
emphasis in the results presented in section 5.


---------------------------------------------------------------------------
- The abstract presents acronyms that are not introduced (e.g. SVM, MRR).
Moreover, you say that in this project you propose the modeling. It should
be: in this paper…
---------------------------------------------------------------------------

- In the introduction you mention workflow management systems but currently
there are business process management systems (BPMS) in the area of business
process management (BPM). I suggest the authors to discuss the differences
(if the case).

- In the second paragraph of the introduction you refer to a repository of
activities. In the text, in addition to the reference number, provide the
name of the repository or the authors.

- In the introduction you say:  However, there is a precondition for
reusing and/or creating workflows: knowing the available activities… What
do you mean?

- Introduction:..the second case, whose goal is to serve a less expert user,
several workflows are build and the user should select which one most
satisfies him/her need. What do you mean in this sentence is that several
workflows are dynamically built?

- There is a gap in the introduction (second page) when you introduce your
approach. You should better motivate the problem addressed in the paper
before presenting your proposal (more precisely, when you start the
paragraph This paper present a hybrid (second page of the Introduction).

- In the introduction you say: In section Results: we present and discuss
the results obtained with the experiment. But which experiment do you mean?
Until this point of the text you haven’t introduced (even shortly) the
experiment.

In the Related Work Section you say: The present approach considers the
order of activities as an important factor in the recommendation. In this
point you should explain why the order is important; Moreover, this acronym
 SWMS was not introduced; Why you say that:  In our approach, the inputs
and outputs of each activity are considered, in addition to the use of a
domain ontology? Improve discussion; The paragraph  starting withn [22, 11]
do not consider…is too short. Include the last name of the authors in the
text and provide more information: What is the meaning of these terms:
simple activities, subworkflows  and shims? You should have a background
section where you introduce the terms and concepts used in the paper. For
example, the term workflow is not defined. You defined scientific workflow
in the Introduction (you should inform that by simplicity you will refer to
scientific workflow as workflow along the text).

- In Section 3 tell the name of the program in the sentence: myExperiment
repository ([14]), using the program [15]

- Did you considered the possibility of using process mining algorithms
(such as Alpha algorithm) as an alternative to the Simple Matrix solution
(Section 3.1). Not sure if it is possible because it is based on process
logs, but would be interesting to think about.

- In Section 3.2 why 118 times? Is there any reason for this number or was
just defined?

- In Section 3.3 you tell that you used 10-fold-cross-validation technique.
Justify why did you use this technique in particular.

- Second paragraph of Section 4 is too short. Improve discussion.

- In Section 4 you say that the annotation of all the workflows was
manually. Don’t you consider a limitation of your work that could be
described in the Conclusions?

- Provide more information about the ontology building (Figure 2). How was
it build or add references for further information. The title of the paper
includes the ontology term. So, it is expected more information.

- In the Results section I suggest you to add a comparative table where you
include some parameters and provide a more pragmatic view of your analyses.

- In the Conclusion Section you mention a systematic literature review.
However, you didn’t talked about this review when you discuss related
work. Improve your Related Work section and add a reference to the
systematic literature review.

- The Conclusion Section must be improved. You should provide deeper
analyses of your results. How it can be used in practice. How could you
extend your computational solutions to other domains or problems. Also, the
limitations of your approach should be discussed.

- The paper should be proofread because it has many typos in its writing.
E.g. (abstract: The proposed technique were; Introduction: Section Relate
Work describes the techniques proposed in the related literature are
described; as a artificial intelligence; Section Conclusion the final
considerations are presented; Section 5, such the one treated (use the term
addressed) in this paper. Conclusions, problemrecommendation

- Some references look incomplete: L. Richardson. Beautiful soup, 11 2015;
C. G. Roure. myexperiment, 2015.
